when your feet get cold your whole
body's cold I'm gonna have to change
your clothes get to work here carving
out a life for oneself in the Alaskan
bush is tough at best Cody will have to
master the most basic skills if he's
going to survive all right guys
thank you go easy on the boy lesson one
master the essential tools for survival
with these tools you pretty much have
everything you need to live out here
I've moved to Alaska when I was 22 years
old from Washington DC area I didn't
know when I came here I had been
doing construction had a great job but
something in my heart told me to just
had to come up to Alaska and check it
out so basically what I had was I had a
high-powered rifle
I had a 22 rifle for shooting squirrels
rabbits ducks whatever I had a small
Hudson Bay axe and it also doubles as
your hammer one thing I'd really like
you to get in the habit of is find a
place on your person where you can
always have matches and some birch bark
uh-huh because if you ever get wet this
is the one school you're gonna have to
learn to be very good at out here and
that's building a fire a butane lighter
will not light at 30 below zero when I
came out into this country everybody had
their bowl that went everywhere with
them the advantages to wood is when it's
really cold your food doesn't get cold
in them really quick but it's light to
know you know and they're durable
they're pretty darn strong what kind of
what is it
this is birch mm-hmm I think I got a
plastic canteen and a metal tin that
goes
with me and that works fine but you know
what at 20 below zero your lips stick to
that metal polish I don't even think
about that I'm guessing his brain has
got to be like a supercomputer when it
comes to outdoor living because just
right over in that little 10-minute
spiel about the tools and everything I
learned more than I would have and I
know 10 years down in Oregon the sounds
will become more familiar the alarm
bells will still be there but you'll be
able to quickly say oh that's just this
alright so let's get this stuff out it's
gonna be a little bit stiff the main
goal is to learn fundamentals build that
base of experience as broad as we can
build it first day shelter shelter and
warmth that's all he's got to figure out
Suzy Azzam self-motivation if he's got
that he'll do fine
alright so once you go ahead and unfold
that place is freaking cold got off the
plane here and I think within 30 minutes
my face was already ice and right then
and there I kind of realized this is a
whole new world I mean it's literally
like you just landed on a different
planet I'm just so anxious nervous
getting out here and not knowing how to
do something's like you want to take it
slow no matter what I'll hand the pipe
in you can run that up through
if you're an arrogant person living out
here and he think you can do everything
it's gonna come back and bite you every
time and you'll get yourself in real
trouble so you have to be humble you
have to realize that you're gonna screw
up and you know learn from it
you